i ought to have judged by deeds and not by words .
it is an order .
where do you come from ? the old gentleman said to him .
and i added , with some hesitancy : perhaps it was because of the anniversary ?
its sweetness was born of the walk under the stars , the song of the pulley , the effort of my arms .
he was really very angry .
for what the king fundamentally insisted upon was that his authority should be respected .
my home was hiding a secret in the depths of its heart .. .
who are you ? asked the little prince , and added , you are very pretty to look at .
the little prince smiled .
the companions who met me on my return were well content to see me alive .
i can not , any more ... murmured the little prince , now completely abashed .
he was regretting his lost sunset .
then - the planet now makes a complete turn every minute , and i no longer have a single second for repose .
little man ,
you - you alone - will have the stars as no one else has them -
oh , no !
the little prince went on with his explanation : your planet is so small that three strides will take you all the way around it .
goodbye , he said .
that is enough , said the businessman .
chapter num_unk .
but there is no shop anywhere where one can buy friendship , and so men have no friends any more .
it is all so small .
i , replied the little prince , do not like to condemn anyone to death .
he tossed his golden curls in the breeze .
the one thing i love in life is to sleep .
of what moment now was my hammer , my bolt , or thirst , or death ?
and all day he says over and over , just like you : " i am busy with matters of consequence ! " and that makes him swell up with pride .
this was a merchant who sold pills that had been invented to quench thirst .
and he lighted his lamp again .
that is very interesting , said the little prince .
then what ? asked the little prince .
you own the stars ?
i am right here , the voice said , under the apple tree .
good morning - good morning - good morning , answered the echo .
chapter num_unk .
why are you talking with snakes ?
on my planet i had a flower ; she always was the first to speak .. .
if i owned a flower , i could pluck that flower and take it away with me .
and he flushed .
and he laughed again .
what are you doing there ? he said to the tippler , whom he found settled down in silence before a collection of empty bottles and also a collection of full bottles .
this is the desert .
the planet earth , replied the geographer .
for me , it was like a spring of fresh water in the desert .
he stood there all bewildered , the glass globe held arrested in mid - air .
so the little prince , in spite of all the good will that was inseparable from his love , had soon come to doubt her .
the song of the pulley was still in my ears , and i could see the sunlight shimmer in the still trembling water .
it is better , like that .
kings do not own , they reign over .
and , after a little silence , he spoke again : the stars are beautiful , because of a flower that can not be seen .
and since it is beautiful , it is truly useful .
but do not waste your time on this extra task .
this man , the little prince said to himself , reasons a little like my poor tippler .. .
and what do you do with these stars ?
for others , who are scholars , they are problems .
the orders have not been changed , said the lamplighter .
such power was a thing for the little prince to marvel at .
now go away , said the little prince .
two and five make seven .. .
ask yourselves : is it yes or no ?
oh , where i live , said the little prince , it is not very interesting .
and is it not a matter of consequence to try to understand why the flowers go to so much trouble to grow thorns which are never of any use to them ?
now my sorrow is comforted a little .
he asks them questions , and he notes down what they recall of their travels .
what planet is this on which i have come down ? asked the little prince .
if , for example , you come at four o'clock in the afternoon , then at three o'clock i shall begin to be happy .
i send off the trains that carry them ; now to the right , now to the left .
ah , that is interesting !
i myself own a flower , he continued his conversation with the businessman , which i water every day .
i ask your forgiveness .
they reassure themselves as best they can .
why have you just put out your lamp ?
hum ! replied the king ; and before saying anything else he consulted a bulky almanac .
the second time , eleven years ago , i was disturbed by an attack of rheumatism .
i have not been altogether honest in what i have told you about the lamplighters .
certainly it is .
if i owned a silk scarf , he said , i could put it around my neck and take it away with me .
because of the pulley , and the rope , what you gave me to drink was like music .
they are what make one day different from other days , one hour from other hours .
nothing is perfect , sighed the fox .
i knew very well that it was impossible to cross - examine him .
because intoxicated men see double .
chapter num_unk .
he was beginning to be afraid he had come to the wrong planet , when a coil of gold , the color of the moonlight , flashed across the sand .
you become responsible , forever , for what you have tamed .
but i was not reassured .
it is a little lonely in the desert .. .
i have the right to require obedience because my orders are reasonable .
i put the lamp out in the morning , and in the evening i lighted it again .
it is too heavy for you .
yawn again !
they adore figures , and that will please them .
i remembered the fox .
i do not need to live on this planet .
it is very cold where you live .
we are roses , the roses said .
i can not carry this body with me .
it seemed to me that i was carrying a very fragile treasure .
then , after a silence , he went on : i came down very near here .
it is just as it is with the water .
what does that mean - " tame " ?
there is no time for idle dreaming in my life .
seen from a slight distance , that would make a splendid spectacle .
all men have the stars , he answered , but they are not the same things for different people .
so , too , she began very quickly to torment him with her vanity - which was , if the truth be known , a little difficult to deal with .
what does that mean - " tame " ?
good morning , said the railway switchman .
if i ordered a general to fly from one flower to another like a butterfly , or to write a tragic drama , or to change himself into a sea bird , and if the general did not carry out the order that he had received , which one of us would be in the wrong ? the king demanded .
but how far away it is !
if you succeed in judging yourself rightly , then you are indeed a man of true wisdom .
the little prince made no reply .
i am thirsty for this water , said the little prince .
but the little prince was wondering .. .
he did not follow my reasoning , and he answered me : it is a good thing to have had a friend , even if one is about to die .
the little prince looked them over , and laughed as he said : your baobabs - they look a little like cabbages .
when i came back from my work , the next evening , i saw from some distance away my little price sitting on top of a wall , with his feet dangling .
good morning , said the flower .
certainly .
i felt his heart beating like the heart of a dying bird , shot with someone 's rifle .. .
thirst had made me a little feverish , and i looked at them as if i were in a dream .
twenty - two and six make twenty - eight .
that is the most difficult thing of all .
at no time did i see or hear anyone .
i too sat down , because i was not able to stand up any longer .
when he puts out his lamp , he sends the flower , or the star , to sleep .
but he said to me : tonight , it will be a year ... my star , then , can be found right above the place where i came to the earth , a year ago .. .
now you can go back home -
i said to the little prince .
i am responsible for her .
it is like five hundred million little bells .. .
it was then that the fox appeared .
five hundred million what ? asked the little prince .
there is nothing sad about old shells .. .
and he laughed again .
it is to raise in salute when people acclaim me .
it is just as it is with the flower .
and you will sometimes open your window , so , for that pleasure ... and your friends will be properly astonished to see you laughing as you look up at the sky !
it is rather poetic .
then he quickly became serious : tonight - you know ... do not come , said the little prince .
he did not cry out .
little golden objects that set lazy men to idle dreaming .
i am so unhappy .
but you will sit a little closer to me , every day .. .
and all roads lead to the abodes of men .
one much require from each one the duty which each one can perform , the king went on .
i do n't get enough exercise .
but he receives the explorers in his study .
i never wished you any sort of harm ; but you wanted me to tame you .. .
he has no way of guessing the danger ,
you are not very powerful .
ah , little prince , dear little prince !
the little prince sat down on a stone , and raised his eyes toward the sky .
they are lucky , the switchman said .
after five minutes of this exercise the little prince grew tired of the game 's monotony .
come , now !
and you will see how everything changes .. .
goodbye , said the fox .
little man ,
you are beautiful , but you are empty , he went on .
i ought not to have listened to her , he confided to me one day .
but she interrupted herself at that point .
after a silence the little prince spoke again : you have good poison ?
this one was like a well in a village .
next , the lamplighters of china and siberia would enter for their steps in the dance , and then they too would be waved back into the wings .
there is a rite , for example , among my hunters .
i felt the need of protecting him , as if he himself were a flame that might be extinguished by a little puff of wind .. .
i could n't tell you that , either .
it will be a very shabby trick that i shall have played on you .. .
come and play with me , proposed the little prince .
this was a very short visit , but it plunged the little prince into deep dejection .
the thing that matters to us is the mountain .
but you have hair that is the colour of gold .
good morning , he said courteously .
i hunt chickens ; men hunt me .
as his lips opened slightly with the suspicious of a half - smile , i said to myself , again : what moves me so deeply , about this little prince who is sleeping here , is his loyalty to a flower - the image of a rose that shines through his whole being like the flame of a lamp , even when he is asleep .. .
the businessman opened his mouth , but he found nothing to say in answer .
and the little prince asked himself : how could he recognize me when he had never seen me before ?
chapter num_unk .
if you ordered your people to go and throw themselves into the sea , they would rise up in revolution .
and then he added : go and look again at the roses .
do not come to see that .
but , because he was a very good man , he made his orders reasonable .
you must return to your engine .
i raised the bucket to his lips .
i think there are six or seven of them in existence .
one waits until the explorer has furnished proofs , before putting them down in ink .
it was the most magnificent and stately planet that he had ever seen .
but you can not pluck the stars from heaven .. .
i said nothing .
what is it that you are looking for ?
you have nothing to do but wait for me there .
hum ! said the king .
the little prince shuts his flower under her glass globe every night , and he watches over his sheep very carefully .. .
try to be happy ... let the glass globe be .
no .
minster of - of justice !
one day , for instance , when she was speaking of her four thorns , she said to the little prince : let the tigers come with their claws !
at one time i say to myself : surely not !
who are you - who are you - who are you ? answered the echo .
but he took courage once more .
order the sun to set .. .
you talk just like the grown - ups !
but it happened that after walking for a long time through sand , and rocks , and snow , the little prince at last came upon a road .
to be sure , no one had ever known how to find it ; perhaps no one had ever even looked for it .
if this should happen , please comfort me .
i was astonished by a sudden understanding of that mysterious radiation of the sands .
chapter num_unk .
do me this kindness .
it is right there above us .
whomever i touch , i send back to the earth from whence he came , the snake spoke again .
i dropped my eyes , then , to the foot of the wall - and i leaped into the air .
but the conceited man did not hear him .
you are not at all like my rose , he said .
i have friends to discover , and a great many things to understand .
the geographer is much too important to go loafing about .
and now six years have already gone by .. .
on that side , as on this , there was nobody at all .. .
where are the men ? the little prince asked , politely .
so thursday is a wonderful day for me !
nevertheless he is the only one of them all who does not seem to me ridiculous .
i said .
he said to me , instead : the thing that is important is the thing that is not seen .. .
bees ?
chapter num_unk .
and i have left her on my planet , all alone !
ashamed of drinking !
and that is sad .
they buy things all ready made at the shops .
it is too heavy .
i am not tamed .
i said to him , i am a little frightened -
flowers have thorns just for spite !
i have always loved the desert .
i will -
what a queer planet ! he thought .
one runs the risk of weeping a little , if one lets himself be tamed .. .
and he put out his lamp .
and a brilliantly lighted express train shook the switchman 's cabin as it rushed by with a roar like thunder .
abruptly , without anything to lead up to it , and as if the question had been born of long and silent meditation on his problem , he demanded : a sheep -- if it eats little bushes , does it eat flowers , too ?
one morning they would appear in the grass , and by night they would have faded peacefully away .
how is it possible for one to own the stars ?
chapter num_unk .
my life is very monotonous , the fox said .
you will understand now that yours is unique in all the world .
it is contrary to etiquette to yawn in the presence of a king , the monarch said to him .
once every minute i have to light my lamp and put it out !
a sheep ,
and a second brilliantly lighted express thundered by , in the opposite direction .
and she is so weak !
you are responsible for your rose .. .
send me word that he has come back .
why are you drinking ? demanded the little prince .
it was the smallest of all .
the well that we had come to was not like the wells of the sahara .
then he went on with his reflections : i thought that i was rich , with a flower that was unique in all the world ; and all i had was a common rose .
are you still there ?
those are the orders , replied the lamplighter .
there is a flower .. .
that is of no importance .
i shall be much more afraid this evening .. .
he is the only one we have .
and what do i do with those fifty - three minutes ?
clap your hands , one against the other , the conceited man now directed him .
it is possible , said the fox .
it does me the good of making me rich .
that is the tragedy !
the little prince gazed at him for a long time .
there was just enough room on it for a street lamp and a lamplighter .
then the thorns -- what use are they ?
why is that ? asked the little prince .
that was his first moment of regret .
the thorns - what use are they ?
chapter 8 .
if he had been master of such complete authority , he would have been able to watch the sunset , not forty - four times in one day , but seventy - two , or even a hundred , or even two hundred times , without ever having to move his chair .
as the little prince dropped off to sleep , i took him in my arms and set out walking once more .
that is why they bring no end of trouble upon us .
then , when the moral character of the explorer is shown to be good , an inquiry is ordered into his discovery .
they are pursuing nothing at all , said the switchman .
it means to establish ties .
it does not change .
men have no more time to understand anything .
who are you ? he demanded , thunderstruck .
but i am a man who is naturally interested in matters of consequence .
phew !
do n't you see - i am very busy with matters of consequence !
he never answered questions - but when one flushes does that not mean yes ?
the flower coughed .
what are you trying to say ?
but you - you come from far away !
the first of them was inhabited by a king .
good evening .
and the little prince went away .
i do not understand , said the little prince .
the tippler brought his speech to an end , and shut himself up in an impregnable silence .
and there is sweetness in the laughter of all the stars .
i am about to receive a visit from an admirer ! he exclaimed from afar , when he first saw the little prince coming .
yes , i know .. .
i believe that for his escape he took advantage of the migration of a flock of wild birds .
good evening , said the snake .
you should advise them , then , to make their own calculations .
and here were five thousand of them , all alike , in one single garden !
so then i made a pencil sketch of a muzzle .
i shall look a little as if i were dying .
chapter num_unk .
the little prince also pulled up , with a certain sense of dejection , the last little shoots of the baobabs .
the businessman raised his head .
at night i want you to put me under a glass globe .
i am a flower .
i order you to do so , the king answered him , and majestically gathered in a fold of his ermine mantle .
you understand ... it is too far .
i reached the wall just in time to catch my little man in my arms ; his face was white as snow .
the shrub soon stopped growing , and began to get ready to produce a flower .
but he went on , relentlessly : you mix everything up together .. .
the little prince was now white with rage .
your planet is very beautiful , he said .
it is like that .
on the little prince 's planet the flowers had always been very simple .
a geographer is a scholar who knows the location of all the seas , rivers , towns , mountains , and deserts .
i saw them , several years ago .
chapter num_unk .
these are their only interests .
i could n't tell you , said the geographer .
then she added : do n't linger like this .
but he said to himself , nevertheless : it may well be that this man is absurd .
he has never smelled a flower .
exactly , the geographer said .
the second planet was inhabited by a conceited man .
of course i love you , the flower said to him .
forget that i am ashamed , the tippler confessed , hanging his head .
no .
the little prince 's last words came reeling back into my memory : then you are thirsty , too ?
this is the earth ; this is africa , the snake answered .
the men where you live , said the little prince , raise five thousand roses in the same garden - and they do not find in it what they are looking for .
i could n't tell you , said the geographer .
the conceited man against raised his hat in salute .
he was a little discouraged .
no one has tamed you , and you have tamed no one .
and he cast a look around him at the planet of the geographer .
it would have been better to come back at the same hour , said the fox .
and he went back to meet the fox .
over everything ?
how do you know about that ?
men , said the fox .
the little prince was still not satisfied .
it is much more difficult to judge oneself than to judge others .
where i live everything is so small that i can not show you where my star is to be found .
but he came back to his idea .
in the old days it was reasonable .
and you , on your part , have no need of me .
i did not know how i could reach him , where i could overtake him and go on hand in hand with him once more .
the little prince , who was present at the first appearance of a huge bud , felt at once that some sort of miraculous apparition must emerge from it .
if you want a friend , tame me .. .
i was very much worried , for it was becoming clear to me that the breakdown of my plane was extremely serious .
here is an explorer ! he exclaimed to himself when he saw the little prince coming .
those also are actions too often neglected , said the fox .
there now - that is all .. .
and he added : it is not worth the trouble .. .
it is the same as that on the preceding page , but i have drawn it again to impress it on your memory .
are there chickens ?
to whom do they belong ? the businessman retorted , peevishly .
and , naïvely , she showed her four thorns .
i can not play with you , the fox said .
chapter num_unk .
then they belong to me , because i was the first person to think of it .
here at last is a man who has a real profession !
a horror of drafts - that is bad luck , for a plant , remarked the little prince , and added to himself , this flower is a very complex creature .. .
and if i know - i , myself - one flower which is unique in the world , which grows nowhere but on my planet , but which one little sheep can destroy in a single bite some morning , without even noticing what he is doing - oh !
on one star , one planet , my planet , the earth , there was a little prince to be comforted .
good morning .
i said to the little prince .
and i was born at the same moment as the sun .. .
because an explorer who told lies would bring disaster on the books of the geographer .
he remained motionless for an instant .
there was a moment of complete silence .
she could not have known anything of any other worlds .
i do not eat bread .
just that .
you must keep your promise , said the little prince , softly , as he sat down beside me once more .
so , he tended the flower .
i am a fox , said the fox .
the little prince went away , to look again at the roses .
as for me , said the little prince to himself , if i had fifty - three minutes to spend as i liked , i should walk at my leisure toward a spring of fresh water .
yes ,
good morning .
i said to him : the flower that you love is not in danger .
he has never been either hungry or thirsty .
we have wakened the well , and it is singing .. .
so i shall set out on my way again .
hum !
and the pulley moaned , like an old weathervane which the wind has long since forgotten .
yes , that is so , said the fox .
mine perfumed all my planet .
now go !
but the flower was not satisfied to complete the preparations for her beauty in the shelter of her green chamber .
that night i did not see him set out on his way .
i did not know what to say to him .
and when your sorrow is comforted ( time soothes all sorrows ) you will be content that you have known me .
i tell you - it is also because of the snake .
i will draw you a muzzle for your sheep .
certainly they do , the king said .
i am responsible for my rose , the little prince repeated , so that he would be sure to remember .
it has done me good , said the fox , because of the color of the wheat fields .
his words were choked by sobbing .
another voice must have answered him , for he replied to it : yes , yes !
good morning .
i said to myself .
hum !
to nobody .
and he put out his lamp .
good morning .
come back tomorrow evening .. .
but , after some thought , he added : what does that mean - " tame " ?
on our earth we are obviously much too small to clean out our volcanoes .
chapter 9 .
i had loosened the golden muffler that he always wore .
i demanded .
we write of eternal things .
and he gave me a sad smile .
ah !
the grown - ups are certainly very odd , he said to himself , as he continued on his journey .
at that moment i was very busy trying to unscrew a bolt that had got stuck in my engine .
but at another time i say to myself : at some moment or other one is absent - minded , and that is enough !
chapter num_unk .
i shall show you how happy i am !
if you would have the kindness to think of my needs -
that is possible .
hum ! replied the king .
so with me : i own the stars , because nobody else before me ever thought of owning them .
it is also lonely among men , the snake said .
and they were both silent .
it was good for the heart , like a present .
i made a gesture of weariness .
you are like my fox when i first knew him .
the general , or myself ?
and i have the muzzle .. .
embarassed over having let herself be caught on the verge of such a naïve untruth , she coughed two or three times , in order to put the little prince in the wrong .
you think that is not important !
you do not live here , said the fox .
and he was overcome with sadness .
and i had so little drinking - water left that i had to fear for the worst .
i do n't know how to draw anything except boa constrictors from the outside and boa constrictors from the inside .
a mushroom !
a common rose , and three volcanoes that come up to my knees - and one of them perhaps extinct forever ... that does n't make me a very great prince .. .
i follow a terrible profession .
it seemed to me , even , that there was nothing more fragile on all earth .
it is altogether dry , and altogether pointed , and altogether harsh and forbidding .
i can help you , some day , if you grow too homesick for your own planet .
it is a hat for salutes , the conceited man replied .
that does n't do me much good , said the lamplighter .
so that i may forget , replied the tippler .
but if you tame me , it will be as if the sun came to shine on my life .
it is difficult .
what place would you advise me to visit now ? he asked .
what has brought you here ?
but if you come at just any time , i shall never know at what hour my heart is to be ready to greet you .. .
you confuse everything .. .
chapter num_unk .
no .
he did not understand this quiet sweetness .
i shall command it .
i order you to ask me a question , the king hastened to assure him .
i ought never to have run away from her .. .
they believe that their thorns are terrible weapons .. .
and then the little bells are changed to tears .. .
and what do you do with five - hundred millions of stars ?
geographies , said the geographer , are the books which , of all books , are most concerned with matters of consequence .
and , having opened his big register , the geographer sharpened his pencil .
good evening .
the fourth planet belonged to a businessman .
but he did not reply to my question .
i said nothing .
it is an act too often neglected , said the fox .
anything you like .. .
and as i gave it to him my heart was torn .
but i have already seen a king who -
and that is all ?
tomorrow will be its anniversary .
five and seven make twelve .
he should be able , for example , to order me to be gone by the end of one minute .
but you are the only man on your planet !
and so it will be as if all the stars were laughing , when you look at the sky at night ... you - only you - will have stars that can laugh !
good morning , the little prince said to him .
and towns , and rivers , and deserts ?
it might , you see , have been a new kind of baobab .
he stared at me , thunderstruck .
oh , yes !
but he looked at me steadily , and replied to my thought : i am thirsty , too .
they imagine that they fill a great deal of space .
he began , therefore , by visiting them , in order to add to his knowledge .
fifteen and seven make twenty - two .
and i have the sheep 's box .
and he laughed again .
please excuse me .. .
when will that be ? inquired the little prince .
then he said , again : you know - my flower .. .
i love to hear that laughter !
hum !
then one morning , exactly at sunrise , she suddenly showed herself .
his flower had told him that she was the only one of her kind in all the universe .
ah , then , the king said .
he was surprised by this absence of reproaches .
he fell as gently as a tree falls .
you are an explorer !
i do not permit insubordination .
in one of the stars i shall be living .
ah !
it was now the eighth day since i had my accident in the desert , and i had listened to the story of the merchant as i was drinking the last drop of my water supply .
it is entertaining , thought the little prince .
there before me , facing the little prince , was one of those yellow snakes that take just thirty seconds to bring your life to an end .
and when the hour of his departure drew near - ah , said the fox , i shall cry .
i said to him , you are afraid .. .
because she is my rose .
ashamed of what ? insisted the little prince , who wanted to help him .
the wind blows them away .
goodbye , said the little prince .
good morning , said the fox .
eh ?
you will see where my track begins , in the sand .
from year to year the planet has turned more rapidly and the orders have not been changed !
yet through the silence something throbs , and gleams .. .
it is not worth the trouble .. .
it seems to me that conditions are favorable .. .
it is your own fault , said the little prince .
i was just going to look for it when you spoke to me .. .
i am glad , he said , that you agree with my fox .
on the morning of his departure he put his planet in perfect order .
sire - over what do you rule ?
he remembered the sunsets which he himself had gone to seek , in other days , merely by pulling up his chair ; and he wanted to help his friend .
give me some of it to drink .. .
a month ?
from time to time you will condemn him to death .
then , if a little man appears who laughs , who has golden hair and who refuses to answer questions , you will know who he is .
but i was too young to know how to love her .. .
the third time - well , this is it !
and they heard the roaring thunder of a third brilliantly lighted express .
in one of them i shall be laughing .
then you will say to them , " yes , the stars always make me laugh ! " and they will think you are crazy .
i suppose you would n't have a screen for me ?
oh , no .
only the children are flattening their noses against the windowpanes .
and then i put this paper in a drawer and lock it with a key .
and that honey color was making me happy , too .
oh , look !
my petals are still all disarranged .. .
to you , i am nothing more than a fox like a hundred thousand other foxes .
the night had fallen .
were they not satisfied where they were ? asked the little prince .
then i - i order you sometimes to yawn and sometimes to -
i demanded .
you were on the your back to the place where you landed ?
i have also a flower .
because they save a tremendous amount of time , said the merchant .
the grown - ups , to be sure , will not believe you when you tell them that .
this one might bite you just for fun .. .
then my sunset ? the little prince reminded him : for he never forgot a question once he had asked it .
the wheat fields have nothing to say to me .
hum !
ah ! said the snake .
they are asleep in there , or if they are not asleep they are yawning .
is my flower in danger of speedy disappearance ?
he was tired .
i understand you very well , said the little prince .
but i am more powerful than the finger of a king , said the snake .
when i succeeded in catching up with him he was walking along with a quick and resolute step .
the stars .
yes , that 's it .
this water was indeed a different thing from ordinary nourishment .
over all that , the king answered .
i said .
a little sunshine is all he needs .. .
the screen ?
be my friends .
first you will sit down at a little distance from me - like that - in the grass .
let me go on by myself .
it is very rarely that an ocean empties itself of its waters .
i have been silly , she said to him , at last .
then they rush about , and get excited , and turn round and round .. .
as for me , i was upset over that bolt .
forget what ? inquired the little prince , who already was sorry for him .
i did not know .
i do n't amuse myself with balderdash .
you have plans that i do not know about ,
this man was so much occupied that he did not even raise his head at the little prince 's arrival .
there is no room here for a carriage .
and then , too , he was already beginning to be a little bored .
yes , that is so , said the fox .
and now i think i will go on my way .
i waited a long time .
chapter num_unk .
the little prince could guess easily enough that she was not any too modest - but how moving - and exciting - she was !
with these pills , you save fifty - three minutes in every week .
i had moistened his temples , and had given him some water to drink .
i do n't want it any more .
what brought me , then , this sense of grief ?
your cigarette has gone out .
dear little man ,
he said to me , instead : you know - my descent to the earth .. .
a what ?
i felt awkward and blundering .
the grown - ups are certainly altogether extraordinary , he said simply , talking to himself as he continued on his journey .
while we have been talking together a month has gone by .
it will be as it was when we drank the water .. .
then it has done you no good at all !
and he took me by the hand .
what is that big book ? said the little prince .
all the stars will pour out fresh water for me to drink .. .
then i am happy .
that means that i write the number of my stars on a little paper .
on some one evening he forgot the glass globe , or the sheep got out , without making any noise , in the night .. .
you know - a muzzle for my sheep .. .
when he lights his street lamp , it is as if he brought one more star to life , or one flower .
i said .
i cried .
and he used the extinct volcano as a footstool .
unfortunately , nobody at all ever passes this way .
so now i keep wondering : what is happening on his planet ?
one can count , there num_unk kings ( not forgetting , to be sure , the negro kings among them ) , num_unk geographers , num_unk businessmen , 7,500,000 tipplers , 311,000,000 conceited men - that is to say , about 2,000,000,000 grown - ups .
then come back to say goodbye to me , and i will make you a present of a secret .
the first time was twenty - two years ago , when some giddy goose fell from goodness knows where .
that man , said the little prince to himself , as he continued farther on his journey , that man would be scorned by all the others : by the king , by the conceited man , by the tippler , by the businessman .
but he was still worrying .
but it was not because she had a cold .
from a mountain as high as this one , he said to himself , i shall be able to see the whole planet at one glance , and all the people .. .
what do i do with them ?
but the animals -
i hoisted the bucket slowly to the edge of the well and set it there - happy , tired as i was , over my achievement .
the little prince clapped his hands .
it was not such a heavy body ... and at night i love to listen to the stars .
in the place i came from -
you have n't even any feet .
men have forgotten this truth , said the fox .
all the stars will be wells with a rusty pulley .
the wells of the sahara are mere holes dug in the sand .
chapter 7 .
i shall look at you out of the corner of my eye , and you will say nothing .
and so you will love to watch all the stars in the heavens ... they will all be your friends .
it would be magnificent .
i forbid you to do so .
oh , that will be all right , he said , children understand .
and if not the butterflies - and the caterpillars - who will call upon me ?
the flower is the most beautiful thing on my planet !
twelve and three make fifteen .
and i knew that i could not bear the thought of never hearing that laughter any more .
good morning .
but what does that mean - " ephemeral " ? repeated the little prince , who never in his life had let go of a question , once he had asked it .
but there was no village here , and i thought i must be dreaming .. .
it is such a secret place , the land of tears .
the little prince sat down on the table and panted a little .
i have three volcanoes .
but all these stars are silent .
she adjusted her petals one by one .
yes , that is true , said the little prince .
it would be my fault .
he merely said to me : water may also be good for the heart .. .
and , after working with all this painstaking precision , she yawned and said : ah !
but there is one extraordinary thing ... when i drew the muzzle for the little prince , i forgot to add the leather strap to it .
and yet what they are looking for could be found in one single rose , or in a little water .
because i am about to die of thirst .. .
words are the source of misunderstandings .
i have n't a single explorer on my planet .
then you shall judge yourself , the king answered .
it is unnecessary .
and you will see how well i am obeyed .
one sits down on a desert sand dune , sees nothing , hears nothing .
to them , all men are subjects .
thirty days .
but on this last morning all these familiar tasks seemed very precious to him .
i am scarcely awake .
i was just coming to tell him that my work had been successful , beyond anything that i had dared to hope .
i do n't believe anything .
it is very rarely that a mountain changes its position .
then that makes five - hundred - and - one - million , six - hundred - twenty - two - thousand , seven - hundred - thirty - one .
but i know that he did go back to his planet , because i did not find his body at daybreak .
you have decided to go away .
but if you tame me , then we shall need each other .
on another planet ?
but now you are going to cry ! said the little prince .
oh !
but she made no answer .
perhaps the sheep has eaten the flower .. .
again the little prince disturbed my thoughts .
and he continued his confidences : the fact is that i did not know how to understand anything !
so he cleaned out the extinct volcano , too .
just that , said the fox .
but the little prince could not restrain his admiration : oh !
at sunrise the sand is the color of honey .
five - hundred - and - one million what ? repeated the little prince , who never in his life had let go of a question once he had asked it .
it was wrong of you to come .
he does not leave his desk .
but i can put them in the bank .
he got away from me without making a sound .
is this not of more consequence than a fat red - faced gentleman 's sums ?
please - tame me ! he said .
he was only a fox like a hundred thousand other foxes .
but one day , from a seed blown from no one knew where , a new flower had come up ; and the little prince had watched very closely over this small sprout which was not like any other small sprouts on his planet .
my dear little man , this is no longer a matter that has anything to do with the fox !
i will be waiting for you here .
there are no people in the desert .
to be sure , an ordinary passerby would think that my rose looked just like you - the rose that belongs to me .
he could not say anything more .
and i shall love to listen to the wind in the wheat .. .
ah !
and he too said nothing more , because he was crying .. .
but one never knows where to find them .
other steps send me hurrying back underneath the ground .
if the two billion inhabitants who people its surface were all to stand upright and somewhat crowded together , as they do for some big public assembly , they could easily be put into one public square twenty miles long and twenty miles wide .
we do not know that , the king said to him .
it will be as if , in place of the stars , i had given you a great number of little bells that knew how to laugh .. .
no , said the king .
and at night you will look up at the stars .
we do not record flowers , said the geographer .
and i heard him say : then you do n't remember .
i shall not leave you .
ah !
are they pursuing the first travelers ? demanded the little prince .
there was nothing but a flash of yellow close to his ankle .
one should simply look at them and breathe their fragrance .
the little prince crossed the desert and met with only one flower .
my cold is not so bad as all that ... the cool night air will do me good .
he was an absolute monarch .
i am glad that you have found what was the matter with your engine , he said .
he took one step .
then you 're unlucky , said the little prince .
he carefully cleaned out his active volcanoes .
but i did not know how to take pleasure in all her grace .
and they were both silent .
the little prince was not able to reach any explanation of the use of a street lamp and a lamplighter , somewhere in the heavens , on a planet which had no people , and not one house .
one must observe the proper rites .. .
do you really admire me very much ? he demanded of the little prince .
i said nothing .
she was such a proud flower .. .
and the orders have been changed since that time ?
you are no thicker than a finger .. .
for , to conceited men , all other men are admirers .
for she did not want him to see her crying .
it was a flower with three petals , a flower of no account at all .
oh , but i have looked already ! said the little prince , turning around to give one more glance to the other side of the planet .
even as i was digging into my pocked to get out my revolver i made a running step back .
the only mountains he had ever known were the three volcanoes , which came up to his knees .
goodbye , he said to the flower .
he sat down .
you are not fair , little prince ,
may i sit down ? came now a timid inquiry from the little prince .
ah !
what are you doing ?
yes , said the little prince , but i can judge myself anywhere .
sire , he said to him , i beg that you will excuse my asking you a question -
he has never loved any one .
when one wishes to play the wit , he sometimes wanders a little from the truth .
but in herself alone she is more important than all the hundreds of you other roses : because it is she that i have watered ; because it is she that i have put under the glass globe ; because it is she that i have sheltered behind the screen ; because it is for her that i have killed the caterpillars ( except the two or three that we saved to become butterflies ) ; because it is she that i have listened to , when she grumbled , or boasted , or ever sometimes when she said nothing .
yes ? said the little prince , who did not understand what the conceited man was talking about .
has the sheep eaten the flower ?
that would be too complicated .
only the children know what they are looking for , said the little prince .
good morning , said the roses .
chapter num_unk .
thirty minutes .
he made no answer to my question , but he added : i , too , am going back home today .. .
but , at the noise i made , the snake let himself flow easily across the sand like the dying spray of a fountain , and , in no apparent hurry , disappeared , with a light metallic sound , among the stones .
you can judge this old rat .
it is a very different matter .
that made me a little ashamed .
he laughed again .
nothing .
good morning , said the little prince .
but i have not much time .
good morning , the little prince responded politely , although when he turned around he saw nothing .
and the little prince , completely abashed , went to look for a sprinkling - can of fresh water .
but it cast an enchantment over that house .
i continued my walk toward the wall .
oh !
it is my fault that you have not known it all the while .
he also had one volcano that was extinct .
leave it to me ,
and i have no need of you .
no , no !
no .
has it any oceans ?
i shall feel happier and happier as the hour advances .
this tale of claws , which disturbed me so much , should only have filled my heart with tenderness and pity .
on the fifth day -- again , as always , it was thanks to the sheep -- the secret of the little prince 's life was revealed to me .
to admire mean that you regard me as the handsomest , the best - dressed , the richest , and the most intelligent man on this planet .
then , with a sigh , he took his leave .
as for me , i am concerned with matters of consequence .
beside the well there was the ruin of an old stone wall .
and what should one do to make the hat come down ? he asked .
i have nothing more to do here , he said to the king .
i solve them all , said the snake .
when we had trudged along for several hours , in silence , the darkness fell , and the stars began to come out .
the grown - ups are certainly very , very odd , he said to himself , as he continued on his journey .
and you think that is not important !
but extinct volcanoes may come to life again , the little prince interrupted .
and it tires me to walk .
wait for a time , exactly under the star .
you are there .. .
to me , you will be unique in all the world .
the king made a gesture , which took in his planet , the other planets , and all the stars .
he said to me merely : ah !
i admire you , said the little prince , shrugging his shoulders slightly , but what is there in that to interest you so much ?
i can -
he twined himself around the little prince 's ankle , like a golden bracelet .
but he did not answer my plea .
they do not find it ,
my friend the fox - the little prince said to me .
my star will just be one of the stars , for you .
but if the hunters danced at just any time , every day would be like every other day , and i should never have any vacation at all .
that frightens me .. .
to be always in the sunshine , you need only walk along rather slowly .
they also raise chickens .
they never become old - fashioned .
it is not the geographer who goes out to count the towns , the rivers , the mountains , the seas , the oceans , and the deserts .
do not go , said the king , who was very proud of having a subject .
yes , a month .
i am looking for men , said the little prince .
here it is .
it was only in the full radiance of her beauty that she wished to appear .
and he lighted his lamp again .
the fifth planet was very strange .
but he did not answer me .
am i not ? the flower responded , sweetly .
flowers are so inconsistent !
volcanic eruptions are like fires in a chimney .
the little prince was disappointed .
but there is nobody here to judge !
as the little prince watched him , he felt that he loved this lamplighter who was so faithful to his orders .
and i understood what he had been looking for .
i shall be there tonight .
twenty - six and five make thirty - one .
i took him in my arms , and rocked him .
he did not know how the world is simplified for kings .
accepted authority rests first of all on reason .
i said nothing .
i was only twenty metres from the wall , and i still saw nothing .
what is a rite ? asked the little prince .
are you looking for chickens ?
and i answered with the first thing that came into my head : the thorns are of no use at all .
i ought to have guessed all the affection that lay behind her poor little strategems .
you remember - how good it was .
i am concerned with matters of consequence : i am accurate .
the next day the little prince came back .
i did not want him to tire himself with the rope .
one goes to see it ?
and if the recollections of any one among them seem interesting to him , the geographer orders an inquiry into that explorer 's moral character .
but , according to my science of government , i shall wait until conditions are favorable .
but one never knows .
and the stars obey you ?
yes , i know .. .
where are the men ? the little prince at last took up the conversation again .
the little prince flushed again .
i shall know the sound of a step that will be different from all the others .
little glittering objects .
then she forced her cough a little more so that he should suffer from remorse just the same .
he was standing before a garden , all a - bloom with roses .
i realised clearly that something extraordinary was happening .
he drank , his eyes closed .
it is an exchange .
but i am not an explorer .
but it will be like an old abandoned shell .
he had taken seriously words which were without importance , and it made him very unhappy .
he breathed a sigh of regret , and said to himself , again : that man is the only one of them all whom i could have made my friend .
here is a subject , exclaimed the king , when he saw the little prince coming .
it has a good reputation .
thus his life will depend on your justice .
when i was a little boy i lived in an old house , and legend told us that a treasure was buried there .
i have your sheep .
oh , no .
men ? she echoed .
i shall look as if i were dead ; and that will not be true .. .
that will be about - about - that will be this evening about twenty minutes to eight .
and once again , without understanding why , i had a queer sense of sorrow .
they have guns , and they hunt .
she has four thorns , of no use at all , to protect herself against all the world .. .
i have no time for loafing .
the conceited man raised his hat in a modest salute .
you shall describe your planet to me !
these are not the same ones , said the switchman .
on the earth one sees all sorts of things .
and he began again to clap his hands , one against the other .
what are they looking for ?
it is the time i have wasted for my rose - said the little prince , so that he would be sure to remember .
it is here that the little prince appeared on earth , and disappeared .
i have never yet told this story .
chapter num_unk .
it is of some use to my volcanoes , and it is of some use to my flower , that i own them .
i am drinking , replied the tippler , with a lugubrious air .
i will make you a minister !
i am a geographer , the old gentleman said to him .
good morning , said the little prince .
he had already traveled so much and so far !
on matters of consequence , the little prince had ideas which were very different from those of the grown - ups .
he has never done anything in his life but add up figures .
yes , that is true ,
the planet was tiny .
for my businessman they were wealth .
there is no room on it for two people .. .
you need only swallow one pill a week , and you would feel no need of anything to drink .
a day lasts only one minute , here where you live !
but he is not so absurd as the king , the conceited man , the businessman , and the tippler .
all the chickens are just alike , and all the men are just alike .
at four o'clock , i shall already be worrying and jumping about .
and the little prince went away .
i sat down beside him .
in the moonlight i looked at his pale forehead , his closed eyes , his locks of hair that trembled in the wind , and i said to myself : what i see here is nothing but a shell .
to you , i shall be unique in all the world .. .
there are no tigers on my planet , the little prince objected .
but why do you always speak in riddles ?
there was not even any sound , because of the sand .
when he arrived on the planet he respectfully saluted the lamplighter .
one question , however , occurred to me : then it was not by chance that on the morning when i first met you - a week ago - you were strolling along like that , all alone , a thousand miles from any inhabited region ?
why is that ?
that will be so amusing !
the little prince never let go of a question , once he had asked it .
for others they are no more than little lights in the sky .
the fox seemed perplexed , and very curious .
for some , who are travelers , the stars are guides .
yes .
has it any mountains ?
and no grown - up will ever understand that this is a matter of so much importance !
i had the rest of the day for relaxation and the rest of the night for sleep .
they obey instantly .
i have good reason to believe that somewhere on my planet there is an old rat .
chapter num_unk .
what is most important is invisible .. .
and , besides , i am going to make you a present .. .
flowers are weak creatures .
men occupy a very small place upon the earth .
his face turned from white to red as he continued : if some one loves a flower , of which just one single blossom grows in all the millions and millions of stars , it is enough to make him happy just to look at the stars .
wheat is of no use to me .
the earth is large , said the snake .
she is so naïve !
you have , i know , confidence in me .
you will have five hundred million little bells , and i shall have five hundred million springs of fresh water .. .
i did not understand this answer , but i said nothing .
everything is ready for use : the pulley , the bucket , the rope .. .
but he is not a man - he is a mushroom !
over what could this king really rule ?
what does that mean - " ephemeral " ?
and that was true .
the geographer was suddenly stirred to excitement .
but it is of no great consequence .
what are you trying to say ?
but the wind -
good morning , he said .
i stopped in my tracks , my heart torn asunder ; but still i did not understand .
so the little prince tamed the fox .
so then the seventh planet was the earth .
i beg that you will excuse me .
it was as sweet as some special festival treat .
oh !
but he saw nothing , save peaks of rock that were sharpened like needles .
i did not answer .
but his planet is indeed too small .
that is to say - not entirely .
you will suffer .
it seems that they are very beautiful .
what promise ?
he still hesitated a little ; then he got up .
he made the most frightful noise that resounded all over the place , and i made four mistakes in my addition .
the next planet was inhabited by a tippler .
this is more entertaining than the visit to the king , the little prince said to himself .
not even the locomotive engineer knows that , said the switchman .
i am unlucky , said the lamplighter .
i replied .
your fox - his ears look a little like horns ; and they are too long .
five - hundred - and - one million - i can n't stop .. .
the little prince yawned .
the movements of this army would be regulated like those of the ballet in the opera .
yes , i know .. .
then there are no people on the earth ?
the little prince looked everywhere to find a place to sit down ; but the entire planet was crammed and obstructed by the king 's magnificent ermine robe .
well ? said the geographer expectantly .
chapter num_unk .
but the little prince , having now completed his preparations for departure , had no wish to grieve the old monarch .
and what good does it do you to own the stars ?
but you are of no use to the stars .. .
and he sat down , because he was afraid .
look at it carefully so that you will be sure to recognise it in case you travel some day to the african desert .
for example , if the discovery in question is that of a large mountain , one requires that large stones be brought back from it .
ah !
they waste their time over a rag doll and it becomes very important to them ; and if anybody takes it away from them , they cry .. .
snakes - they are malicious creatures .
she would be very much annoyed , he said to himself , if she should see that ... she would cough most dreadfully , and she would pretend that she was dying , to avoid being laughed at .
clad in royal purple and ermine , he was seated upon a throne which was at the same time both simple and majestic .
i hear him at night .
and the roses were very much embarassed .
after that would come the turn of the lamplighters of russia and the indies ; then those of africa and europe , then those of south america ; then those of south america ; then those of north america .
when you find a diamond that belongs to nobody , it is yours .
millions of those little objects , he said , which one sometimes sees in the sky .
they fancy themselves as important as the baobabs .
she had come in the form of a seed .
when you want to rest , you will walk - and the day will last as long as you like .
i am not at all afraid of tigers , she went on , but i have a horror of drafts .
you are a funny animal , he said at last .
try to be happy .. .
but he laughed lightly .
he had a magnificent air of authority .
exactly .
only the man who was in charge of the single lamp at the north pole , and his colleague who was responsible for the single lamp at the south pole - only these two would live free from toil and care : they would be busy twice a year .
think how wonderful that will be when you have tamed me !
and he laughed again .
if i ordered a general , he would say , by way of example , if i ordered a general to change himself into a sea bird , and if the general did not obey me , that would not be the fault of the general .
all the stars are a - bloom with flowers .. .
for millions of years the sheep have been eating them just the same .
the businessman suddenly realized that there was no hope of being left in peace until he answered this question .
and , anyway , tigers do not eat weeds .
and , if you should come upon this spot , please do not hurry on .
and , as i walked on so , i found the well , at daybreak .
and now here is my secret , a very simple secret : it is only with the heart that one can see rightly ; what is essential is invisible to the eye .
i replied , yes , that is so .
first would come the turn of the lamplighters of new zealand and australia .
no one is ever satisfied where he is , said the switchman .
ah ,
i said .
then the geographer would note down two mountains in a place where there was only one .
i said , tell me that it is only a bad dream - this affair of the snake , and the meeting - place , and the star .. .
over everything , said the king , with magnificent simplicity .
you move me to pity - you are so weak on this earth made of granite , the snake said .
let us look for a well .. .
but you - you have been just as foolish as i .
and , without saying anything more , i looked across the ridges of sand that were stretched out before us in the moonlight .
i have my claws .
the desert is beautiful , the little prince added .
i had let my tools drop from my hands .
nevertheless , he still had some more questions .
please excuse me , said the little prince .
but a thought came to reassure him : it is true that they have no more poison for a second bite .
and what good does it do you to be rich ?
the little prince gazed at them .
she cast her fragrance and her radiance over me .
as yet you are nothing .
i made you my ambassador , the king called out , hastily .
i order you to yawn .
i was saying , then , five - hundred - and - one millions -
hum !
yes .
but i have made him my friend , and now he is unique in all the world .
once again i felt myself frozen by the sense of something irreparable .
you shall have your sunset .
matters of consequence !
i can n't help it .
and when he watered the flower for the last time , and prepared to place her under the shelter of her glass globe , he realised that he was very close to tears .
what are the orders ?
it is not funny at all ! said the lamplighter .
i had been so proud of my baobabs !
his look was very serious , like some one lost far away .
i have come on a long journey , and i have had no sleep .. .
goodbye , said the flower .
flies ?
the flower had once seen a caravan passing .
but one requires the explorer to furnish proofs .
but you will pardon him on each occasion ; for he must be treated thriftily .
well , i must endure the presence of two or three caterpillars if i wish to become acquainted with the butterflies .
they all looked like his flower .
they had only one ring of petals ; they took up no room at all ; they were a trouble to nobody .
it is years since i have seen anyone yawning .
what is essential is invisible to the eye , the little prince repeated , so that he would be sure to remember .
i , too , shall look at the stars .
they are in a great hurry , said the little prince .
i administer them , replied the businessman .
but he was worried .
i am beginning to understand , said the little prince .
i own them .
but you are a geographer !
good morning , said the merchant .
i soon learned to know this flower better .
i want to get down from the wall .
i shall look as if i were suffering .
what does that mean - " admire " ?
i had drunk the water .
i think that she has tamed me .. .
whether volcanoes are extinct or alive , it comes to the same thing for us , said the geographer .
he sputtered a little , and seemed vexed .
when you get an idea before any one else , you take out a patent on it : it is yours .
millions of what ?
i said to the little prince , these memories of yours are very charming ; but i have not yet succeeded in repairing my plane ; i have nothing more to drink ; and i , too , should be very happy if i could walk at my leisure toward a spring of fresh water !
whatever does that mean ?
the grain , which is also golden , will bring me back the thought of you .
i know some one , said the little prince , who would make a bad explorer .
what does this mean ?
i always want to rest , said the lamplighter .
you must be very patient , replied the fox .
he possessed two active volcanoes ; and they were very convenient for heating his breakfast in the morning .
perhaps that is because he is thinking of something else besides himself .
and the people have no imagination .
i felt deeply moved , and stirred .
now you must work .
he looked at me there , with my hammer in my hand , my fingers black with engine - grease , bending down over an object which seemed to him extremely ugly .. .
are they coming back already ? demanded the little prince .
good evening , said the little prince courteously .
i could see that he was reviving little by little .
and her mysterious adornment lasted for days and days .
it is the time you have wasted for your rose that makes your rose so important .
and he lay down in the grass and cried .
he tolerated no disobedience .
i own three volcanoes , which i clean out every week ( for i also clean out the one that is extinct ; one never knows ) .
this is not the exact spot .
that is a queer hat you are wearing .
i am responsible for this flower .. .
one could not die for you .
look up at the sky .
the recitals of explorers are put down first in pencil .
what does that mean - " ephemeral " ?
we do not record them , said the geographer , because they are ephemeral .
it is very disturbing .
and now i did not dare ask him any more questions .
yawns , to me , are objects of curiosity .
i sort out travelers , in bundles of a thousand , said the switchman .
if they are well cleaned out , volcanoes burn slowly and steadily , without any eruptions .
oh , but this is not on the earth ! said the little prince .
i wonder , he said , whether the stars are set alight in heaven so that one day each one of us may find his own again .. .
you will want to laugh with me .
you will be far away ... as for the large animals - i am not at all afraid of any of them .
i am looking for friends .
when you discover an island that belongs to nobody , it is yours .
and i should be obliged to pretend that i was nursing her back to life - for if i did not do that , to humble myself also , she would really allow herself to die .. .
it means , " which is in danger of speedy disappearance . "
why is that ?
one only understands the things that one tames , said the fox .
but you must not forget it .
he laughed , touched the rope , and set the pulley to working .
every thursday they dance with the village girls .
they have no roots , and that makes their life very difficult .
the house , the stars , the desert - what gives them their beauty is something that is invisible !
he has never looked at a star .
i said .
one must look with the heart .. .
what makes the desert beautiful , said the little prince , is that somewhere it hides a well .. .
then the little prince flashed back at me , with a kind of resentfulness : i do n't believe you !
and then look : you see the grain - fields down yonder ?
how beautiful you are !
it is strange ,
good morning , said the little prince .
he looked at me very gravely , and put his arms around my neck .
i answered you with the first thing that came into my head .
and the little prince went away , puzzled .
five - hundred - and - one million , six - hundred - twenty - two thousand , seven - hundred - thirty - one .
if you love a flower that lives on a star , it is sweet to look at the sky at night .
what is a geographer ? asked the little prince .
yours will call me , like music , out of my burrow .
goodbye , he said again .
there is nothing to understand , said the lamplighter .
the flowers have been growing thorns for millions of years .
i am all alone - all alone - all alone , answered the echo .
men , said the little prince , set out on their way in express trains , but they do not know what they are looking for .
as the king made no answer , the little prince hesitated a moment .
then , sadly - it is much farther ... it is much more difficult .. .
that is a beautiful occupation .
they repeat whatever one says to them .. .
the fox gazed at the little prince , for a long time .
but he interrupted me .
my flower is ephemeral , the little prince said to himself , and she has only four thorns to defend herself against the world .
here , then , is a great mystery .
i think it is time for breakfast , she added an instant later .
for you who also love the little prince , and for me , nothing in the universe can be the same if somewhere , we do not know where , a sheep that we never saw has - yes or no ? -- eaten a rose .. .
he found himself in the neighborhood of the asteroids num_unk , num_unk , num_unk , num_unk , num_unk , and num_unk .
i am concerned with matters of consequence .
is the warfare between the sheep and the flowers not important ?
to give you an idea of the size of the earth , i will tell you that before the invention of electricity it was necessary to maintain , over the whole of the six continents , a veritable army of num_unk lamplighters for the street lamps .
good morning , said the little prince .
and never would they make a mistake in the order of their entry upon the stage .
but , as he said , one never knows !
when i was a little boy , the lights of the christmas tree , the music of the midnight mass , the tenderness of smiling faces , used to make up , so , the radiance of the gifts i received .
over all that ? asked the little prince .
yes , even flowers that have thorns .
for it is possible for a man to be faithful and lazy at the same time .
why are you selling those ? asked the little prince .
he must not bite you .
it is beautiful , the snake said .
so would an explorer who drank too much .
the earth is not just an ordinary planet !
you can not even travel .. .
i took my rough drafts of drawings out of my pocket .
after that , the little prince climbed a high mountain .
i can n't stop myself , replied the little prince , thoroughly embarrassed .
to me , you are still nothing more than a little boy who is just like a hundred thousand other little boys .
but nevertheless we started walking .
you are sure that it will not make me suffer too long ?
but he made one more effort : you know , it will be very nice .
all humanity could be piled up on a small pacific islet .
is that all that is necessary ?
i am not a weed , the flower replied , sweetly .
the orders are that i put out my lamp .
it was inhabited by an old gentleman who wrote voluminous books .
then he mopped his forehead with a handkerchief decorated with red squares .
one never ought to listen to the flowers .
he will never have been able to fasten it on his sheep .
i , for instance , am very glad to have had a fox as a friend .. .
she was a coquettish creature !
chapter num_unk .
during the fifty - four years that i have inhabited this planet , i have been disturbed only three times .
i could not move .
she did not wish to go out into the world all rumpled , like the field poppies .
i am all alone , he said .
i answered , eats anything it finds in its reach .
even flowers that have thorns ?
yes .
i said , i want to hear you laugh again .
having set their lamps alight , these would go off to sleep .
and i felt him to be more fragile still .
i am very old .
two volcanoes are active and the other is extinct .
the little prince flushed once more .
i have so much to do !
why not ?
approach , so that i may see you better , said the king , who felt consumingly proud of being at last a king over somebody .
you will always be my friend .
it makes it possible for me to buy more stars , if any are ever discovered .
and because he felt a bit sad as he remembered his little planet which he had forsaken , he plucked up his courage to ask the king a favor : i should like to see a sunset ... do me that kindness .. .
if your majesty wishes to be promptly obeyed , he said , he should be able to give me a reasonable order .
are there hunters on this planet ?
who are you ? said the little prince .
and the little prince went away , thinking of his flower .
what do you do here ? the little prince asked .
what must i do , to tame you ? asked the little prince .
he was afraid , there was no doubt about that .
ah !
i can take a walk as far as the vineyards .
minister of what ?
those are the orders , replied the lamplighter .
you , said the little prince firmly .
i want to , very much , the little prince replied .
do not go .
admire me just the same .
so he remained standing upright , and , since he was tired , he yawned .
and , in consequence , i am a little bored .
this is , to me , the loveliest and saddest landscape in the world .
she chose her colours with the greatest care .
i will draw you a railing to put around your flower .
i was sad , but i told them : i am tired .
he can say to himself , " somewhere , my flower is there ... " but if the sheep eats the flower , in one moment all his stars will be darkened .. .
three and two make five .
i have not yet made a complete tour of my kingdom .
it is the right day , but this is not the place .
the grown - ups are very strange , the little prince said to himself , as he continued on his journey .
when the little prince arrived on the earth , he was very much surprised not to see any people .
i shall not leave you ,
what the little prince did not dare confess was that he was sorry most of all to leave this planet , because it was blest every day with num_unk sunsets !
i breathed easily .
orders are orders .
that is very funny !
look at my planet .
for his rule was not only absolute : it was also universal .
i have n't time to light it again .
but why have you just lighted it again ?
and you actually believe that the flowers -
at that instant i was saying to myself : if this bolt still will n't turn , i am going to knock it out with the hammer .
for at least his work has some meaning .
one never knows , said the geographer .
i do n't know .
the little prince , however , replied once again : -- exactly .
i know a planet where there is a certain red - faced gentleman .
you mean the stars ?
i shall not leave you .
no , said the little prince .
the sixth planet was ten times larger than the last one .
he believed that he would never want to return .
computations have been made by experts .
that is my present .
i can carry you farther than any ship could take you , said the snake .
they are naïve .
you know , he said , i can tell you a way you can rest whenever you want to .. .
" to establish ties " ?
and the little prince added : but the eyes are blind .
but you are innocent and true , and you come from a star .. .
i have been having some trouble with a flower , said the little prince .
conceited people never hear anything but praise .
and i realize that i run the risk of giving a false idea of our planet to those who do not know it .
and what do you do with them ?
do you hear ? said the little prince .
i count them and recount them .
ah ,
i was holding him close in my arms as if he were a little child ; and yet it seemed to me that he was rushing headlong toward an abyss from which i could do nothing to restrain him .. .
it is absurd to look for a well , at random , in the immensity of the desert .
